docs(theme-chalk): add how to custom theme by scss or css variables (#3494)
element-plus/element-plus: docs/en-US/guide/theming.md

title: Theming
---

# Custom theme

Element Plus uses BEM-styled CSS so that you can override styles easily. But if
you need to replace styles at a large scale, e.g. change the theme color from
blue to orange or green, maybe overriding them one by one is not a good idea. We
provide four ways to change the style variables.

## Change theme color <el-tag type="success" style="vertical-align: middle;">since 1.1.0-beta.1</el-tag>

### By SCSS variables

`theme-chalk` is written in SCSS.
You can find SCSS variables in [`packages/theme-chalk/src/common/var.scss`](https://github.com/element-plus/element-plus/blob/dev/packages/theme-chalk/src/common/var.scss).

::: warning

> We use [`sass:map`](https://sass-lang.com/documentation/values/maps) refactor all SCSS variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We use [`sass:map`](https://sass-lang.com/documentation/values/maps) to refactor all SCSS variables.
```

> For example, We use `$--colors` as a map to record various types of colors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, We use `$--colors` as a map to preserve different types of colors.
```

> `$--notification` is a map of all variables of the `notification` compoennt.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`$--notification` is a map where all variables of the `notification` component at.
```

> In the future, we will write documentation for variables that can be customized for each component. You can also directly view the [var.scss](https://github.com/element-plus/element-plus/blob/dev/packages/theme-chalk/src/common/var.scss).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the future, we will write documentation for variables that can be customized for each component. You can also directly checkout the [source](https://github.com/element-plus/element-plus/blob/dev/packages/theme-chalk/src/common/var.scss).
```

:::

```scss
$--colors: () !default;
$--colors: map.deep-merge(
  (
    'white': #ffffff,
    'black': #000000,
    'primary': (
      'base': #409eff,
    ),
    'success': (
      'base': #67c23a,
    ),
    'warning': (
      'base': #e6a23c,
    ),
    'danger': (
      'base': #f56c6c,
    ),
    'error': (
      'base': #f56c6c,
    ),
    'info': (
      'base': #909399,
    ),
  ),
  $--colors
);
```

How to override it?

If your project also uses SCSS, you can directly
change Element Plus style variables. Create a new style file, e.g. `element-variables.scss`:

```scss
/* just override what you need */
$--colors: (
  'primary': (
    'base': green,
  ),
);
```

Then in the entry file of your project, import this style file instead of Element's
built CSS:

```JS
import Vue from 'vue'
// import it before element-plus scss
import './element-variables.scss'
import 'element-plus/theme-chalk/src/index.scss'
import ElementPlus from 'element-plus'
import App from './App.vue';

const app = createApp(App)
app.use(ElementPlus)

> ```

Reviewer: try use `ts` for annotating the code block. And you have `JS` instead of `js`

::: tip
It is compatible with the SCSS variable system. We use the function of SCSS to automatically generate css variables for use.
:::

This means you can dynamically change individual variables inside the component to better customize it without having to modify scss and recompile it.

> In the future, the css variable names and role documentation for each component will be written to each component.

Like this:

```css
:root {
  --el-color-primary: green;
}
```

If you just want to customize a particular component, just add inline styles for certain components individually.

```html
<el-tag style="--el-tag-background-color: red">Tag</el-tag>
```

For performance reasons, it is more recommended to custom css variables under a class rather than the global `:root`.

```css
.custom-class {
  --el-tag-background-color: red;
}
```

If you want to control css var by script, try this:

```js
// document.documentElement is global
const el = document.documentElement
// const el = document.getElementById('xxx')

// get css var
getComputedStyle(el).getPropertyValue(`--el-color-primary`)

// set css var
el.style['--el-color-primary'] = 'red'
```

> > If you want a more elegant way, check this out.
> > [useCssVar | VueUse](https://vueuse.org/core/usecssvar/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want a more elegant way, check this out.
[useCssVar | VueUse](https://vueuse.org/core/usecssvar/)
```

There's no need to **reference** these lines since is is not a reference.

> Now that you've tried element-plus, which means you're someone who's used to trying new things, don't read the old guide below!

Reviewer: I think this entire line is not relevant so we should remove line `146` IMHO.
